en/application-dev/arkts-utils/concurrency-overview.md, before:

# Concurrency Overview

Concurrency refers to the situation where multiple tasks are executed at the same time. For a multi-core device, these tasks may be executed on different CPUs concurrently. For a single-core device, multiple concurrent tasks are not executed at the same time. However, the CPU switches tasks when a task is in the sleep state or is performing I/O operations, and schedules and executes other tasks to improve CPU resource utilization.

To improve the response speed and frame rate of applications and prevent time-consuming tasks from blocking the main thread, the system provides two policies: asynchronous concurrency and multithread concurrency.

- Asynchronous concurrency means that an action in asynchronous code is suspended and will resume later. Only one segment of code is executed at a time. Promise and async/await: implement asynchronous concurrency and apply to the development of a single I/O task. For details, see [Asynchronous Concurrency Overview](async-concurrency-overview.md).

- Multithreaded concurrency allows multiple segments of code to be executed at a time. When the main thread responds to user operations and updates the UI, time-consuming operations are performed in the background, avoiding application freezing. ArkTS uses TaskPool and Worker to provide the multi-thread concurrency capability, which is applicable to concurrency scenarios such as [time-consuming tasks](time-consuming-task-overview.md). For details, see [Multithreaded Concurrency Overview](multi-thread-concurrency-overview.md).


In a concurrent multi-thread scenario, data communication needs to be performed between different concurrent threads, and transmission modes of different types of objects are different, including copy or memory sharing.

The concurrency capability is used in multiple scenarios, including []asynchronous concurrent tasks (async-concurrency-overview.md) and [time-consuming tasks](time-consuming-task-overview.md) ([CPU-intensive tasks](cpu-intensive-task-development.md), [I/O-intensive tasks](io-intensive-task-development.md), [synchronization tasks](sync-task-development.md)), [continuous tasks](long-time-task-overview.md), and [resident tasks](resident-task-overview.md) You can select a concurrency policy for optimization and development based on different task requirements and scenarios. For details, see [Multithreaded Development Practice Cases](batch-database-operations-guide.md).

Commit message:

Update docs against 71227+70417+70080+69792+69295+68628+68577+66633+65748+65641+65517+65435+65257+65271+65120+73139
Signed-off-by: wusongqing<wusongqing@huawei.com>

en/application-dev/arkts-utils/concurrency-overview.md, after:

# Overview of Concurrency

Concurrency refers to the situation where multiple tasks are executed at the same time. On multi-core devices, these tasks can run in parallel across different CPUs. On single-core devices, while multiple tasks cannot run in parallel at the exact same moment, the CPU can switch between tasks when one is idle or performing I/O operations, thereby optimizing CPU resource utilization.

To improve the response speed and frame rate of applications and mitigate the impact of time-consuming tasks on the UI main thread, ArkTS provides two concurrency strategies: asynchronous concurrency and multithreaded concurrency.

- Asynchronous concurrency involves pausing asynchronous code at a certain point and resuming its execution later, ensuring that only one piece of code is running at any given moment. ArkTS supports asynchronous concurrency through Promises and async/await, which are well-suited for scenarios involving single I/O operations. For details, see [Asynchronous Concurrency](async-concurrency-overview.md).

- Multithreaded concurrency allows multiple segments of code to run simultaneously. While the UI main thread continues to handle user interactions and update the UI, background threads can perform time-consuming operations, thereby preventing application lag. ArkTS supports multithreaded concurrency through TaskPool and Worker, which are ideal for scenarios involving [time-consuming tasks](time-consuming-task-overview.md). For details, see [Multithreaded Concurrency](multi-thread-concurrency-overview.md).


In multithreaded concurrency scenarios, data communication between different threads is necessary, and the transfer methods for different types of objects can vary, including copy or memory sharing. 

Concurrency capabilities are used in various scenarios, including [asynchronous tasks](async-concurrency-overview.md), [time-consuming tasks](time-consuming-task-overview.md) ([CPU intensive tasks](cpu-intensive-task-development.md), [I/O intensive tasks](io-intensive-task-development.md), and [synchronous tasks](sync-task-development.md)), [continuous tasks](long-time-task-overview.md), and [resident tasks](resident-task-overview.md). You can select the appropriate concurrency strategy based on the specific task requirements and scenarios for optimization and development. You can also refer to [Multithreaded Development Practice Cases](batch-database-operations-guide.md).
